"SPPARKS Website"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,https://spparks.github.io)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

app_style diffusion/multiphase command :h3

[Syntax:]

app_style diffusion/multiphase :pre

[Examples:]

app_style diffusion/multiphase
diffusion/multiphase pin 1           # after creating sites
diffusion/multiphase phase 2
diffusion/multiphase phase 3
diffusion/multiphase weight 0.5 pair 2 3 :pre

[Description:]

This is an on-lattice application which is a multi-species or
multiphase extension to the single species or single phase
"diffusion"_app_diffusion.html app.  If run with an atomic scale
lattice, then this app allows definition of multiple atomic species
via the "diffusion/multiphase"_diffusion_multiphase.html command it
defines.  Likewise if run with a coarse-grained lattice, it allows
definition of multiple phases.  The rest of this doc page uses the
"phase" terminology.

In general, diffusion can lead to phase separation when bond energies
(energy of a pair of neighboring sites) between like phases are lower
than bond energies between different phases.  The rate of phase
separation and the degree to which it occurs can be controlled by
setting the relative bond energies between different phases.

For this app, each site has a phase value which is a value >= 1.
There can be an arbitrary number of phases.  Note that if you want
vacancies included in the model, they are specified as a distinct
phase, just as Al or Cu atoms would be individual phases in an
atomic-scale model.

As illustrated in the example above, the
"diffusion/multiphase"_diffusion_multiphase.html command is used with
this application.  Every numeric phase (unique site value) must be set
to either "phase" or "pin".  The "phase" keyword should be used if the
phase is mobile (it diffuses).  The "pin" keyword should be used if it
is immobile.  The "weight" keyword is used to define a pairwise energy
between pairs of neighbor phases in the energy Hamiltonian for the
model:

Hi = Sum_j weight_ij :pre

where Sum_j is a sum over all the neighbor sites of site I and
weight_ij is the pairwise energy for the phases of site I and J.  Only
pairs of unlike phases can be assigned a weight.  Pairs of like phases
do not contribute to the site energy.  See the
"diffusion/multiphase"_diffusion_multiphase.html command for details.

Note that this equation means this app is effectively limited to the
energy style {linear} option of the "app_style
diffusion"_app_diffusion.html command.

Also note that there should always be two or more non-pinned phases in
your model.  Otherwise no diffusive exchanges between sites with
different phases will take place.

To run this application, an initial phase distribution on the lattice
should be specified.  Each lattice site has an integer value which
stores its phase label.  If only relative volume fractions of the
phases is desired, the "set"_set.html command can be used to set
values.  If there is structure to the initial phase distribution, this
can be written to a SPPARKS input file and read via the
"read_sites"_read_sites.html command; or, the "set stitch"_set.html
command can be used to read phase distribution from a Stitch file
formatted by the Stitch library included with SPPARKS.

The examples/diffusion_multiphase directory has several scripts which
illusrate use of this app; example scripts also demonstrate
initializing phase distributions.

in.pin_filler
in.pairwise_weighs
in.variable_volume_fraction :ul

:line

The following additional command is defined by this application.

"diffusion/multiphase"_diffusion_multiphase.html : define phases and weights :tb(s=:)

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"diffusion/multiphase"_diffusion_multiphase.html, "app_style
diffusion"_app_diffusion.html

[Default:] none
